<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//OASIS/DTD DocBook DocBook 4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [
]>

<article>
<articleinfo>
<copyright>
<year></year>
<holder>This course contains materials from "Survivability and Information Assurance" (copyright 2005 Carnegie Mellon University) with special permission of the Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon University.</holder>
</copyright>
</articleinfo>

<section>
<title>Exam - Introduction</title>

<para><emphasis role="bold">Introduction to Principles of Survivability and Information Assurance</emphasis></para>

<para>Overview: These are the exam questions for the Introduction to Principles of Survivability and Information Assurance.</para>

<para>Who is the audience for "Principles of Survivability and Information Assurance"?</para>
<para>What does the acronym "SFU" stand for?</para>
<para>What are the major topic areas of the SIA Curriculum?</para>
<para>Fill in the blank in this sentence: "System administrators view the set of problems they face and the solutions to those problems through _______________________."</para>
<para>What should system administrators do instead?</para>
<para>What role does technology play in solutions to problems?</para>
<para>Why is it important to understand the Principles of Survivability and Information Assurance?</para>
<para>Fill in the blanks in this sentence: One of the goals of this course is to discuss what is _______ for the system administrator and what is ___.'</para>
<para>Define survivability</para>

</section>
</article>
